# Substitution-Box-Design-for-Image-Encryption
This is the official repository of http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9166501,a work published in the IEEE in 2020.
# Abstract
The new advances that have been happening in the field of information technology and the growth of efficiency in the implementations have increased the scale of the data transmitted electronically to expand tremendously in all of our lives. For data protection one should use many techniques or methods for changing the data into meaning less form for the invaders, before transmitting them online. The Block ciphers divide the data into a number of small units (bits or bytes) and further the data can be processed at unit level. The task of substitution boxes in modern-day block ciphers is to transform plain text data non-linearly in order to generate cipher text data with ample uncertainty. The S-boxes define the cryptographic strength of such block ciphers and increase it’s security. S-boxes are responsible for non-linearity, absence of fixed points and low differential uniformity. And also some other properties like bit independence criteria, strict avalanche criterion, and probability of linear approximation  which makes it very complex for the attackers. In this paper we design a s-box in three steps such as transforming the data, applying inverse operation and shuffling the data at unit level. The performance of the S-box is assessed by comparing it with other recently proposed approaches for designing S-box. In addition, the proposed encryption algorithm uses the designed S-box for performing pixel shuffling,replacement and provides a powerful statistical and differential performance in encryption.
# Keywords
S-Box, Image Encryption, Cryptographic strength
